The President: Thank you
very much, everybody.
It's a great honor to have
the Crown Prince with us.
Saudi Arabia has been a
very great friend
and a big purchaser of equipment
and lots of other things.
And one of the biggest
investments in the United States
is their -- I guess
it's your big investment --
is buying stock in
companies and various
other things in the United
States and creating jobs.
We've become very good
friends over a fairly
short period of time.
I was in Saudi
Arabia in May.
And we are bringing back
hundreds of billions of dollars
into the
United States.
And we understand that,
and they understand that.
Some of the things that --
have been approved
and are currently under
construction and will be
delivered to Saudi Arabia
very soon,
and that's for their protection.
But if you look, in terms
of dollars, $3 billion,
$533 million, $525 million
-- that's peanuts for you.
(Laughter.)
You should
have increased it.
$880 million, $645
million, $6 billion --
that's for frigates; $889
million, $63 million --
and that's for
various artillery.
Some of the things that
we're now working on
and that have been ordered and
will shortly be started
in construction and
delivered:
the THAAD system -- $13 billion;
the C-130 airplanes,
the Hercules, great plane --
$3.8 billion;
the Bradley Vehicles --
that's the tanks --
$1.2 billion; and
the P-8 Poseidons -- $1.4 billion.
And what it does is it
really means many, many jobs.
We're talking about over
40,000 jobs in the United States.
So, we make the best
equipment in the world.
There's nobody even close.
And Saudi Arabia is buying
a lot of this equipment,
and a lot of people are at
work making the equipment,
not only for us -- because
we, as you know,
we're getting a $700 billion
military proposal.
And that's even a
lot for you guys.
But we're getting a $700
billion military plan this year,
and 716 will be next
year -- $716 billion.
So, we really have a
great friendship,
a great relationship.
I would really have to say
the relationship was,
to put it mildly, very, very
strained
during the Obama administration.
And the relationship, now,
is probably as good
as it's really ever been, and
I think will probably
only get better.
Tremendous investments
made in our country.
And that means jobs for our
workers, jobs for our people.
Also, defense.
We're talking about
defense, and we're working
very hard with
Saudi Arabia.
And they're also footing a big
part of the bill for defense --
the whole Middle East.
And we know what's
happened in the Middle East.
And it has not been a
pretty picture
for the United States
or for anybody.
And a lot of things are changing,
and they're changing very rapidly.
As you know, ISIS is now
-- we've recaptured almost
100 percent of the
territory, as you probably
have heard before anybody.
But we've captured close
to 100 percent of the territory
held by ISIS.
We've moved very
rapidly, very quickly.
And that's, really, coming
to an end
in that part of the world
-- it's coming to an end.
And we'll be able to get
out of certain areas
that we've wanted to get out of
for a long period of time.
And other countries
can handle it.
At this point, they'll
be able to handle it.
So, it's a great honor
to have you
and your representatives here.
Crown Prince, thank
you very much.
Thank you for being here.
Crown Prince bin Salman:
Thank you, Mr. President.
Actually, the relations
between Saudi Arabia
and United States of America,
it's old relation.
We are the oldest ally
for the United States of America
in the
Middle East.
The President: Right.
Crown Prince bin Salman:
More than 80 years of alliance
and big
interest -- politically,
economically, and
security, in different area --
a lot of area.
And the foundation for relation,
it's really huge
and really deep.
And a different issue --
we know that today,
the relation, it's the cause
of more than 4 million jobs
in the United of
States of America,
directly and non-directly.
Also, it's a cause for
a lot of jobs in Saudi Arabia
directly
and non-directly.
And, as you know, Mr.
President, from day one
you've reached this office,
we've planned to tackle
200 billion U.S. dollars
for opportunities
in the next four years,
but it ends up with
400 billion U.S. dollar
for opportunities.
We've talked to you,
Mr. President,
about the military deals, the
implementation,
and it is more than 50 percent.
And, also, the
implementation overall
in the 400 billion
U.S. dollar of opportunity,
more than 55 percent.
The President: Right.
Crown Prince bin Salman:
We planned this for
next 10 years, but it happens
in one year,
we implement 55 percent, though.
So, this is signal that
there is a lot of things
could be tackled in the
close future,
and more opportunities.
And that why we are here
today, to be sure
that we've tackled all the
opportunities and achieve it,
and also get rid of
all the threats
facing our both countries and
the whole world.
So, I am very glad
to be here today.
The President:
Well that's right.
And you know, one thing that
you have been really focused
on is the
terrorism threat
and the funding of terrorism.
And whether it's Saudi Arabia
or other countries, as we know,
there
will be no funding.
It is -- we have a zero
tolerance for the funding
of terrorists, and we're
working very hard.
And I will say that Saudi
Arabia has been working
very hard on that, as are
certain other countries
in the Middle East.
When I was there in May,
I think it was one of
the most incredible two-day
meetings that I've ever seen --
that anybody
has ever seen.
It was an amazing
two-day period.
We had 56 countries.
We had -- everybody was there
at the head of every country.
Virtually -- I guess, in
every case,
it was the head of the country.
And we talked about terrorism
and the funding of terrorism.
And it will
not be allowed.
It will not be allowed.
That would be the one
thing that would end
the relationship
with any country.
So, I think there's a very
big focus on that --
the funding of terrorism
-- meaning, it's over.
And the other thing that I
really am very happy about
is that we talked about
400 billion dollars' worth
of investment, of which
we've already invested
and seen invested $200 billion
to our companies,
to various other places, and
people that make things.
So, a lot of places
throughout the United States
are benefitting by
this massive investment
made by Saudi Arabia to buy
product from the United States.
And again, we make the
best military product in
the world, whether it's missiles
or planes or anything else.
There's nobody that
even comes close.
So, I just want to
thank you and I want
to congratulate you
on everything.
Thank you very much.
Crown Prince bin Salman:
Thank you, Mr. President.
The President: Thank you
very much, everybody.
The Press: Can you comment
on the bombings in Austin,
Mr. President?
The President: The
bombings in Austin are terrible.
The local, state, and
federal are working hand-in-hand
to get
to the bottom of it.
This is obviously a very,
very sick individual,
or maybe individuals.
These are sick people, and
we will get to the bottom of it.
We will be very strong.
We have all sorts of
federal agencies
over there right now.
We're searching.
What's going on in
Austin -- a great place,
tremendous place -- is
absolutely disgraceful.
So we have a lot of
power over there.
We're looking; it's
not easy to find.
But these are sick people
and we have to find them
as soon as possible.
We have to find them,
really, immediately.
I will say, working with Texas,
working with
the local governments
has been great.
But we have to produce,
we have to find this
very sick person or people.
Thank you all very much.
The Press: How was your
call with President Putin?
The President: I had a
call with President Putin
and congratulated him
on the victory --
his electoral victory.
The call had to do, also,
with the fact that we will
probably get together in
the not-too-distant future
so that we can discuss arms,
we can discuss the arms race.
As you know, he made a
statement that being
in an arms race is not
a great thing.
That was right after the
election --
one of the first statements
he made.
And we are spending $700 billion
this year on our military,
and a lot of it
is that we are going
to remain stronger than any
other nation
in the world by far.
We had a very good call,
and I suspect that we'll
probably be meeting in the
not-too-distant future
to discuss the arms race,
which is getting out of control,
but we will never
allow anybody to have
anything even close
to what we have.
And also, to discuss
Ukraine and Syria
and North Korea and
various other things.
So, I think, probably,
we'll be seeing President Putin
in the
not-too-distant future.
The Press: How are you
going to counter Iran?
This is a Saudi --
The President: Well, we're
going to see what happens.
The Iran deal
is coming up.
It's probably another
month or so,
and you're going to see what I do.
But Iran has not been
treating that part of the world,
or the world
itself, appropriately.
A lot of bad things
are happening in Iran.
The deal is coming up in
one month,
and you will see what happens.
Okay?
The Press: Your Royal Highness,
should the President pull out
of the Iran deal?
Crown Prince bin Salman:
Well, we'll talk about that today.
The President:
(Laughs.) Okay?
Thank you very
much, everybody.